docs/architecture/LESSONS_LEARNED.md, before:

# Lessons Learned

## Async Implementation Considerations

When porting EventGhost plugins to Rust, we learned that maintaining the original design philosophy is crucial:

### 1. Simplicity Over Complexity
- EventGhost's original design favors straightforward, synchronous event handling
- Avoid over-engineering with complex async patterns unless absolutely necessary
- Keep plugin interfaces simple and predictable

### 2. Plugin Design Principles
- Maintain simple start/stop lifecycle methods
- Use direct event handling rather than complex async event chains
- Focus on immediate event processing rather than queuing/pooling

### 3. Resource Management
- Prefer simple, direct resource handling over complex pooling
- Use straightforward cleanup methods
- Maintain EventGhost's original resource lifecycle patterns

### 4. When to Use Async
- Only introduce async when dealing with inherently async operations (e.g., network I/O)
- Keep async boundaries at the edges of the system
- Don't force async patterns where synchronous code would be clearer

### Example of Simplified Plugin Structure
```rust
pub trait Plugin {
    fn start(&mut self) -> Result<(), Error>;
    fn stop(&mut self) -> Result<(), Error>;
    fn handle_event(&mut self, event: &Event) -> Result<(), Error>;
}
```

This approach better matches EventGhost's original design while still allowing for Rust's safety and performance benefits.

## Plugin System Design Decisions

### 1. Manifest Format
- Chose JSON for plugin manifests due to:
  - Wide ecosystem support
  - Human readability
  - Easy validation
  - Familiar to developers

### 2. Hot-Reloading Strategy
- Implemented state transfer between versions
- Used atomic operations for updates
- Maintained backwards compatibility
- Provided rollback mechanisms

### 3. Dependency Management
- Adopted semantic versioning
- Implemented dependency graph validation
- Supported optional dependencies
- Added conflict resolution

### 4. Error Handling
- Created detailed error types
- Added context to error messages
- Implemented error recovery
- Provided debugging information

## Performance Optimizations

### 1. Plugin Loading
- Lazy loading when possible
- Metadata caching
- Parallel initialization where safe
- Resource cleanup on unload

### 2. Event Processing
- Minimized allocation in hot paths
- Used efficient event routing
- Implemented event batching
- Added event prioritization

### 3. Resource Usage
- Monitored memory consumption
- Implemented resource limits
- Added cleanup triggers
- Used pooling for heavy resources

## Cross-Platform Considerations

### 1. File System
- Used platform-agnostic paths
- Handled file system differences
- Implemented proper cleanup
- Added file locking

### 2. Dynamic Loading
- Supported multiple formats (.dll, .so)
- Handled platform-specific loading
- Added symbol resolution
- Implemented proper unloading

### 3. UI Integration
- Used cross-platform UI framework
- Handled DPI differences
- Supported platform themes
- Added accessibility features

Commit message:

fixes type errors and adds lessons learned from branch work

docs/architecture/LESSONS_LEARNED.md, after:

# Lessons Learned

## Async Implementation Considerations

When porting EventGhost plugins to Rust, we learned that maintaining the original design philosophy is crucial:

### 1. Simplicity Over Complexity
- EventGhost's original design favors straightforward, synchronous event handling
- Avoid over-engineering with complex async patterns unless absolutely necessary
- Keep plugin interfaces simple and predictable

### 2. Plugin Design Principles
- Maintain simple start/stop lifecycle methods
- Use direct event handling rather than complex async event chains
- Focus on immediate event processing rather than queuing/pooling

### 3. Resource Management
- Prefer simple, direct resource handling over complex pooling
- Use straightforward cleanup methods
- Maintain EventGhost's original resource lifecycle patterns

### 4. When to Use Async
- Only introduce async when dealing with inherently async operations (e.g., network I/O)
- Keep async boundaries at the edges of the system
- Don't force async patterns where synchronous code would be clearer

### Example of Simplified Plugin Structure
```rust
pub trait Plugin {
    fn start(&mut self) -> Result<(), Error>;
    fn stop(&mut self) -> Result<(), Error>;
    fn handle_event(&mut self, event: &Event) -> Result<(), Error>;
}
```

This approach better matches EventGhost's original design while still allowing for Rust's safety and performance benefits.

## Plugin System Design Decisions

### 1. Manifest Format
- Chose JSON for plugin manifests due to:
  - Wide ecosystem support
  - Human readability
  - Easy validation
  - Familiar to developers

### 2. Hot-Reloading Strategy
- Implemented state transfer between versions
- Used atomic operations for updates
- Maintained backwards compatibility

## Rust Best Practices and Learnings

### 1. Naming Conventions
- Follow Rust's standard naming conventions:
  - Use upper camel case for enum variants (e.g., `AlignRight` not `ALIGN_RIGHT`)
  - Exception: When using `bitflags!` macro, use uppercase with underscores (e.g., `const ALIGN_RIGHT = 0x0008`)
  - This helps distinguish between regular enums and bitflag constants

### 2. Bitflags vs Enums
- Use `bitflags!` macro when:
  - Values need to be combined with bitwise operations
  - Interfacing with C/Windows APIs that use bit flags
  - Working with hardware flags or system interfaces
- Use regular enums when:
  - Values are mutually exclusive
  - No need for bitwise operations
  - Representing distinct states or variants

### 3. Avoiding Duplicate Type Definitions
- Be careful not to define the same type in multiple places
- When porting from C/C++, choose the most appropriate Rust representation:
  - Consider using `bitflags!` for C-style flag enums
  - Use regular enums for simple value enumerations
  - Document the reasoning behind the choice

## Performance Optimizations

### 1. Plugin Loading
- Lazy loading when possible
- Metadata caching
- Parallel initialization where safe
- Resource cleanup on unload

### 2. Event Processing
- Minimized allocation in hot paths
- Used efficient event routing
- Implemented event batching
- Added event prioritization

### 3. Resource Usage
- Monitored memory consumption
- Implemented resource limits
- Added cleanup triggers
- Used pooling for heavy resources

## Cross-Platform Considerations

### 1. File System
- Used platform-agnostic paths
- Handled file system differences
- Implemented proper cleanup
- Added file locking

### 2. Dynamic Loading
- Supported multiple formats (.dll, .so)
- Handled platform-specific loading
- Added symbol resolution
- Implemented proper unloading

### 3. UI Integration
- Used cross-platform UI framework
- Handled DPI differences
- Supported platform themes
- Added accessibility features
